The Antinomian Troubles & Mathias Irons
The progenitor of the Irons line in this book, Mathias Iron, arrived in Boston, the center of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, in the 1630s. As many people of his day that came as servants he came to the new world as an indentured servant for William Colborn in the Winthrop Fleet.
William Colborn was himself a wealthy and prominent leader in the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He was one of the original 12 Puritan leaders, of which John Winthrop was a member, that meet with one another in 1629 to draw up the “Agreement of the Massachusetts Bay Company at Cambridge, England” which was essentially a founder’s agreement for the colony. Being a wealthy man William Colborn had several servants which he paid to bring to the new world in exchange for them giving a few years of their service.
In 1636 Mathias’s servitude with William was completed and he had become a freeman in the colony. It was not long though before he would be caught up in historic events called the Antinomian Troubles.
Anne Hutchinson came to the new world following her pastor, John Cotton, as he was forced to leave England. In Boston she began hosting house meetings to discuss weekly sermons. During these meetings she began to criticize the preaching of these sermons. She believed the orthodox Puritans were too legalistic in their teachings in that they placed emphasis on the covenant of works over the covenant of grace. Her pastor and mentor, John Cotton, espoused the covenant of grace.
Tensions mounted as these meeting went on and so a Reverend Wheelwright was invited to speak on a day of fasting and repentance in January 1637. This day was meant to ease the tensions in the colony. This sermon did not ease the situation, and in fact in enflamed the situation. Reverend Wheelwright was accused of contempt and sedition in March but he was not sentenced. Fifty seven supporters, mainly in the Boston church, signed a petition of support for him. One of these people included Mathias Irons.
As religion and politics were intertwined in puritan society in the May elections the “free grace” Governor, Henry Vane was voted out of office and replace by the more orthodox John Winthrop. In November Reverend Wheelwright and in March 1638 Anne Hutchinson were banished from the colony for their preaching.
William Colburn was a member of the court, and a friend of Anne Hutchinson and Reverend Wheelwright. He was the only member of the court that voted for Hutchison’s acquittal. This pushed him to withdraw from public service and he never again held a public office in the colony. Additionally because Mathias Irons was one of the signers of the petition on November 20th 1637 he and the other supporters were ordered to turn over all their guns to the colonial leaders. Some of the signers were also banished. Mathias was not and lived in the colony for many years to follow.
The one lesson that can be taken from this story is how fortunate we are to live under our constitution which guarantee’s our religious freedom and right to bear arms. It is, however, also a warning that we must defend our rights because persecution is not some far of story told of old. It is a story that directly affected our family in the past. 
