Hampstead, the Constitution, & Dr. John Bond Senior
Dr. John Bond Senior was born to John Bond and Martha Hale in Haverhill Massachusetts on January 14th 1718. Due to the unfortunate Merrimac River drowning of his father when he was three on May 21st 1721 he is the only Bond in our direct line until Jonathan Bond was born in 1766. This is his story and a little of the story of Hampstead New Hampshire.
Hampstead New Hampshire was originally part of Haverhill Massachusetts. Its land was broken off into New Hampshire during the running of the state line in 1741. John Bond was one of the signers of the petition to Governor Benning Wentworth asking to incorporate the town in 1743. The township was granted in 1749. The book “A memorial of the town of Hampstead, New Hampshire” shows that Dr. John Bond was involved in this process holding meetings at his house. He was also involved in the disputes with Kingston. 
After the incorporation of the town of Hampstead it seems the town had an interesting history. In his history of the town of Hampstead Rev. John Kelly tells the story of how Rev. Henry True was the first pastor of the town. He says that after twenty years of ministry “Baptist ministers came into the place and by the zealous and loud speaking they produced a great commotion but no revival among the people who were very sanguine and versatile in their dispositions”. The result of this he says was a reduction in his salary from $2,756 a year to $200 a year. Twenty years into his ministry would have put the date at about 1772. He goes on to say the Baptist ministers “reduced the number of his hearers and greatly injured the character of the people for almost all the followers of the new became downright infidels and sowed the seed of wickedness.” It is important to note Rev. John Kelly was a Congregationalist/Puritan which means he was Calvinist in his beliefs while the Baptists were Arminists.
Rev John Kelly goes on to say “the infidels of which this town it is believed had more than any other then known in the state gave themselves up to reproaching the saints and blaspheming the name of their Saviour of course the goodly number of sober people were in trouble longing to have a minister to speak the word of truth and to break the bread of life to them.” Later historians say he was exaggerating but never the less it’s an interesting conflict to see.
Dr. John Bond however, it seems, was a “good” Congregationalist. Rev. John Kelly says “The physicians who have resided in this place were the following John Bond, his son John Bond Jr, Samuel Flagg. James Knight, Joshua Sawyer, Isaac Tewksbury. None of these were favored with a liberal education or honored with a medical degree from any of our literary institutions two or three others have had a transient residence here but they are all gone now except Drs Knight and Tewksbury. Dr Bond Senior was an early member of the New Hampshire Medical Society and was a very respectable and devout man and though feeble in health for many years he lived to be eighty six years old and died 4th of January 1804 in a happy frame of mind”
Some sources have the title deacon pre-pended to Dr. John Bond’s name indicating he may have been a deacon at some time. He is listed as owning a pew at the meeting house in Hampstead on March 31st 1746. He owned the first seat on the left hand of the door as one entered the meeting house.
In general it seemed he was very involved in the town. There is no record of his participation in the Revolutionary War but his son Dr. John Bond Jr. was a surgeon’s mate.
Dr. John Bond Hampstead was inducted into New Hampshire medical society in June 1793 in Concord New Hampshire as Fellows. This was the second meeting of the New Hampshire Medical Society. Josiah Bartlett and Matthew Thornton were also members of that same society so it stands to reason Dr. John Bond knew both of them. They were two of the New Hampshire signers of the declaration of independence.
