John Bond married Hester (Ester) Blakeley (1633-Unknown) on August 15th or 25th 1649 in Newbury Massachusetts. He died on December 3rd 1674 in Haverhill Massachusetts.
English Ancestry
His ancestry is part of much debate. Most online sources simply state that he was son of Thomas Bond (1597-1659) (who in turn was the son of Jonas Bond (1568-1601)) and Elizabeth Woods (~1600-1659) and that he was born on February 5th 1624 in Bury St. Edmonds England. However the best sources, such as Dr. Henry Bond, note that this is unconfirmed and I firmly believe he is not the son of Thomas Bond.
The basis for most people’s belief comes from the famous William Bond of Watertown Massachusetts (representative and speaker of the house) who is a confirmed son of Thomas Bond.  Some sources believe John Bond immigrated with his two brothers Thomas and William. This would have put him at around 5 years of age and arriving in 1630. These brothers would have come over with their Aunt Elizabeth, wife of Ephraim Child, on the Winthrop Fleet. Furthermore some say his parent may have come over first but his father died in England: perhaps having come back for the English Civil War.
The problem is there are no original sources that support this and there are sources that go against this. The first one being the will of Thomas Bond which gives John, his second son, his lands and tenements in Monks Ely and to William, his third son, legacies, but no lands nor tenements, he being in America. This implies John was still in England in 1658 when the will was written. John’s sons furthermore are mentioned in the will.
Additionally, in the book “Biographical list of boys educated at King Edward VI. Free Grammar School, Bury St. Edmunds: From 1550 to 1900” there is an interesting reference to John Bond. This book says “BOND John. Son of Thomas Bond of Bury St. Edmunds. Three years at Bury under Stephens. Adm. to John’s Oct. 1639 aged 17.” The Stephens here was Thomas Stephens the headmaster from 1638 to 1645. “Adm.” means admitted. The accepted date of birth for John Bond son of Thomas Bond is February 5th 1624. He was 17 in 1641. A contact online says that “John Bond son of Thomas Bond of BSE graduated from King Edward 6th Grammar School. He graduated St. Johns’ Cambridge in 1639. He was ordained a Deacon in Norwich, England 17 March 1643-4, lived in Playford, Suffolk.” If all of this is fact John Bond was in Newbury at that time as confirmed by deeds and court records. It would therefore be impossible that this is the same John.
Biography
John Bond was a proprietor (freeman/land owner) in Newbury. He was a husbandman.
He lived in Newbury Massachusetts as early as December 1642 as seen in the proprietor’s book of records, folio forty-four. Some sources say he immigrated in 1639 but there is no record where this date comes from.
On March 20th 1645-6 he bought “the howse & howse lott of Mr John Spencer sittuate in Newbury with a planting lott of three acres & a half on great neck over the great River for & in consideration of fourteen pounds.”
John Bond married Hester (Ester) Blakeley (1633-Unknown) on August 15th or 25th 1649 in Newbury Massachusetts.
In the book Ould Newbury published in 1896 on page 143 there is a mention of John Bond. The book is talking about a field at the corner of the country road and Greenleaf’s lane that was divided into three parcels. The first parcel was owned by Daniel Peirce. Daniel Peirce said “in ye yeare 1645 he sould to John Bond four akers of land more or less as it lyeth in that parcell of lotts by the frog pond & Watts Sellar & to be fully satisfied it is bounded with the street on the South & east by the land of Thomas Brown on the west and the land John Bishop sould to the said John Bond on the north.” The book goes on to say this four acre lot by frog pond and Watts Seller is the lot that John Bond built a house and barn. This frog pond is located at the Bartlet Mall in modern day Newburyport Massachusetts near the Essex County Superior Court. The approximate GPS coordinates are N 42° 48’ 28.81” and W 70° 52’ 29.47”.
The second part of this field, the book continues, was sold by John Bishop to John Bond on February 27th 1649.  John Bishop said on that date that he “sould to John Bond four akers of land in the field that is between the frog pond & Wats sellar & to have received full satisfaction & it is bounded on the north with four akers of land that John Bond bought of John Emery on the south with that land that John Bond bought of Daniel Peirce on the west the land of John Bartlett & the street on the east”
The third and final part of this field was sold by John Emery Sr. to John Bond in 1645. He said on “Feb 20 1649 that in the year 1645 he sould unto John Bond also of four akers of land lying in that parcell of lotts the frog pond and Watts Sellar being fully satisfied between the land Cromlome the north John Bishops lot on the south on the east & the land of Anthony Morse on the west.”
The book goes on to say that John Bond was a husbandman of Newbury and on November 20th 1660 he sold the entire 12 acres with the house and barn to Stephen Greenleaf also of Newbury. It was bounded as follows, “a lane going down to Watts Sellar on the east and the High Street on ye South John Bartletts land on the west & the land of Gyles Cromlon on the north.” This was recorded in the Ipswich Deeds, book 2 and leaf 85 (176).
There are several mentions of John Bond in court records in Ipswich. It cannot be guaranteed that these are our John Bond but the circumstantial evidence is quite high considering there is no evidence of another John Bond in the area at the time.
The background of the story is still not fully known but in court records for Court Held at Ipswich on July 26th 1648 the following reference to John Bond was made:
Robert Prince, Henry Keny, and John Bond fined and bound to good behavior for throwing down a great gun and to pay the constable of Salem for keeping them prisoners Turned over to constable of Ipswich by Mr Endecott for criminal prosecution Robt Prince to make acknowledgment to court when and where Capt Hathorne pleases Edward Wharton of Salem bound for the appearance of the three men Waste Book
It seems he was arrested for whatever throwing down a great gun is. A little research into John Bond’s co-defendants may be helpful in understanding who he was hanging around with.
Robert Price of Salem Village died in 1674. His father John Prince was from East Shefford England. He married Sarah Osborne, one of the first three women accused of Witchcraft. He was a deacon and tailor.
Henry Keny, also known as Henry Kinney, was born in Kings Lynn England or Holland in 1623. He died in Salem Village in 1710.  He was the son of John Kinney and the grandson of Sir. Thomas Kinney, a knight, and lord mayor of Kings Lynn. He arrived in 1635 aboard the Elizabeth and Ann. He testified in the Salem Witch Trials. He married Ann Putnam. Robert Price was also related to the Putnam’s through his brother’s marriage.
In the “Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Volume 1” one sees an interesting store which seems to be referring to our ancestor, John Bond. In the Court held at Ipswich on July 24th 1650 there was a case with John Bond v John Hardman also Herdman for Slander.
The exact account from the court records is as follows:
Sarah Higgins deposed that her husband being gone to Boston and she having heard that a man was drowned at Boston was saying to Jno Bond that she was afraid of her husband and Jno asked her if she would promise to have him and he would have kissed her but she spat at him.
Dorothy Prey aged about sixteen years deposed that last winter she saw Jno Bond come to Jno Herdman’s and he had drunk too much wine or beer so that he could not sit upon his stool He confessed that he was overcome with drink He was fined ten shillings She also deposed that Bond at Hardman’s house last Lord’s day seven night took her in his arms out of the kitchen into another room on the same floor She bade him let her alone and hung to one of the doorposts calling for goodwife Loofe but he carried her forcibly into the room and shut the door There was a short ladder of about four or five rounds that went up into the room overhead and she ran up the ladder and the boards not being laid on the upper floors she went down into the room from which she was first taken Here she met Jno Hardman coming into the house and he said to Jno Bond this must not bee soe on a Lord’s day She further deposed that she had heard of Bond’s miscarriages toward the wife of Thomas Higgins
A little further down it says:
Rich Smith deposed that Jno Huntley being at the Iron works in speaking of his punishment said that Mr Bellingham was most against him and Jno Bond being present said they were more devils than men
Still later:
Jno Bond and Tobiah Saunders were bound for Jno Bond’s appearance at Ipswich court
And finally:
John Bond to sit in the stocks half an hour for his misdemeanor
All in all it seems there were two cases of John Bond making advances on women. In the first case he asked a married woman if she would marry him if he husband died. He furthermore tried to kiss the lady which did not end well for him. In the second case he was going after a women age 16 while drunk. He forcibly took her into a room but she got away. For this he was put in the stocks for a half an hour. If this is in fact our John Bond and if it was from events happening that same year he would have already been married at this point.
Researching the other people in this court case provides some light as to where John Bond traveled. Thomas and Sarah Higgins unfortunately cannot be located. John Hardman or Herdman, however, was located in Lynn Massachusetts. He was married to a Sarah Prey, the sister of Dorothy Prey (1634-1705). Quinton Prey, the father of these two girls came over with a group of workers who travel was paid for by John Winthrop the younger in order to start an irons works. He was a finery man and first lived in Kittery Maine. In 1647 he was transferred to Lynn Massachusetts, and finally he transferred to Braintree Massachusetts. Reason seems to indicate these events happened in Lynn Massachusetts: a few towns south of where he lived.
Robert Pike, later to be one of the opponents of the Salem Witch Trials was banned from public office. At the General Court it seems John Bond spoke in favor of Robert Pike. The Massachusetts Archives Volume X page 299 stated:
In October 1654, Captain William Gerrish and Nicholas Noyes reported to the General Court the reasons given for signing the petition by the men of Newbury: “Benjamin Swett saith, ‘Every free subject hath liberty to petition for any that had been in esteem, without offense to any.’ John Emery demanded our Commission and the sight of the petition, and then he would answer. Being produced, he answered we had no power to demand who brought him the petition; and hearing John Bond make answer, told him he was a wise man in a bold, flouting manner. His carriage we conceive was insulting.
John Bond also signed a petition in support of Robert Pike.
In 1659 he signed a petition asking the general court to grant them a tract of land called Pennacook. This is where Concord now lays. The petition read as follows:
To THE HONERED COURTE NOW ASSEMBLED AT BoSTON :
The humble petecyon of us whose names are underwritten, beinge inhabytant of this jurisdiction, and beinge senseable of the need of multiplyinge of towneshippes for the inlargemeant of the contrey and accommodateinge of such as want opportunity to improve themselves, have taken into consideration a place which is called Pennecooke, which by reporte is a place fit for such an one. Now the humble request of your petitioners to this honred Courte is, that we may have the grant of a tracke of land there to the quantity of twelve miles square, which, being granted, we shall give up ourselves to be at the cost and charge of vewinge it, and consider fully about it, wheather to proceed on for the settlinge of a towne or noe, and for that end shall crave the liberty of three yeares to give in our resolution; and in case that wee doe proceed, then our humble request is, that we may have the grant of our freedome from publique charge for the space of seaven yeares after the time of our resolution given into the Honerd Courte for our encouragement to settle a plantation soe furr remote as knowinge that many will be our inconvenyences (for a long time) which we must expeckt to meet with, all which desires of ours beinge ansered, your petetioners shall ever pray for the happyness of this Honred Courte, and rest your humble petitioners.
Richard Walderne, John Bavley, Vall Hill, John Cheiney, Peter Coffin, Nathaniel Weare, ROBARD COKER, John Hird, John Poore. William Ffurbur, Robert Rogers, Roger Plaisteed, Edward Richardson, Edward Woodman, William Cotton, John Pike, John Wolcott, Abraham Toppan, John Bond, Benja Swett, William Titcomb, & George Littell
He moved to Rowley Massachusetts around 1660. It seems he might have bought land on Plum Island while selling his land near frog pond.
In meeting minutes from August 4th 1661 we see the following mention of John Bond of Plum Island:
Att A Generall And Legall Towne meeting Held 4th of the 8th month 1661 It was Agreed and voted by the towne that the Hand Commonly Called Mr Nelsons Hand should be sould vpon these Condisions That there should be left sufficient Roume for the seting of hay and that noe dwelling house should be sett vp vpon the said Hand and that who speuer bought it should beare all dammages done by Cattell or horses It was also Agreed at the same Towne meeting and choyse made and voted that William Asee Mr Phillip Nelson and John Lambert should lay out the same Island according to the Grant of the Towne aboue expresed And according to the Trust by the towne Commited vnto them they haue sould vnto John Bond Inhabbitant of plum Hand for the just and full Sume of twenty pounds to be paid for the vse of Mr Ezeakiell Rogers of Ipswich as part of that leagecy Giuen him by will of Mr Rogers late pastor of this Church and is by those men laid out acording as it lieth bounded Begining a litle aboue a dich Riming into a Creeke by the side of the Hand and Runing Round according to the marked trees there appereing there being left sufficient Roume for the setting of hay and a sufficient way for horse and man to pase through the ILand vnto Euery mans propriety as the way lieth alRedy and free passage ouer any part of the said Hand in winter for the proprietors adjoyneing the Hand to Bring away there hay and all these priueliges vnto the propritors to be Continued for ever
Another mention of him comes on January 4th 1661
At a legall Towne meeting Held the 4th of Jenuary 1661 & 2 it was agreed vppon and voted that John Bond should haue Six Acres of land laved out at the Hand caled Mr Nelsons Hand as convenyently as it could for the proprietors thier belonging alowing for the said Six Acres 12 pounds and to haue eight pounds of his purchase Returned for the Remaineing part of the Hand that was formerly sould to him
The court records of Ipswich on November 13th 1662 show the following incident:
Hester Bond was admonished upon her presentment and was bound to good behavior John Bond her husband surety
It is unclear what she did.
According to the Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Massachusetts, Volume 8 there was a deed dated June 27th 1664 between Philip Nelson, John Carleton and Jeremiah Jewett to Richard Dole, Henry Jaquis, and John Bond, made by Robert Lord, reordered. This record also mentions “Bill of sale dated Dec 16 1662 given by John Bond with the consent of Hester her mark Bond his wife both of Plum Iland to Richard Dole of Newberie for his now dwelling house with all the boards that belonged to the roof and the upper chamber and shelves and all meadow and upland which he bought of Robt Rogers and William Trotter Wit Robt Rogers and Samuell Plumer”. John Bond signed the document and used a seal.
He moved to Haverhill Massachusetts at some point after living in Rowley.
On December 19th 1664 he bought seven and a half acres in Haverhill Massachusetts along the river adjoining land he already owned for 23 pound 5 shillings.
On October 1st 1667 he bought eight acres of meadow land “bounded in part by an island” in Haverhill Massachusetts. Perhaps this was Kimball Island, Stanley Island, or Hales Island.
On November 26th 1667 he and his wife sold three acres of meadow land in Haverhill Massachusetts to John Johnson.
He died on December 3rd 1674 in Haverhill Massachusetts.
His will is dated October 31st 1674. It can be found in the Probate Records of Essex County, Massachusetts:
Estate of John Bond of Haverhill
The Last will & Testament of John Bond of Haverhill made October the 31th: 1674: In order to the disposall & settlement of that estate which the Lord of his goodnesse hath lent mee, I John Bond of Haverhill, being weake in body, & expecting my change & dissolution; but being of good & perfect memory, doe hereby declare this that shall be hereafter declared to be my Will, & duely to be observed after my Decease. That is to say. 1st: I will & order that all my Lawfull debts shall be truly & honestly paid, & my body decently interred, there to waite for it Resurrection unto Glory through the faith & hope which I haue in Jesus Christ my Saviour. 2dly: I give and bequeath unto Hester Bond, my beloved wife, the full half of all my housings, orchards, pastures, arable lands, & meadows; and of each distinct parcel; and the half of that house that is yet to be finished; during her naturall life; which shall after her decease returne into thehands of my Son Joseph. 3dly: I give unto my said wife as a free gift one of my Cowes, called Blossome, or any one of the Cowes which shall be liveing after my death; shee being to make her owne free choice; & to have roome if she please to keepe the same in any housing that shall to that end be erected on my land. 4thly: I give unto my said wife during her naturall life the full improvement and use of all my household stuff, which at her death shall be at her disposal, provided only that what is left at her death of the household goods shall be my said wife be given to one or both of my Daughters, named Mary and Abigall, as my wife shallsee meet. 5thly: I give also to my sd: wife one Sow, shee making her choice of what I leave; and Igive her also two of the spring piggs or shots; which shee shall choose of them.
6thly: I give unto my two Daughters Mary, & Abigaill Six pounds a peece to be paid in corne & neat cattle within two yeares after my decease. 7thly: I give to my Daughter Hester Chase twenty shillings: 8thly: I give to my Son Joseph all the other part of my estate as housing, land, meadows, & living stock, not particularly disposed of by this my last Will; he paying all debts that are due mee; out of that his owne half in the first place, without medling or disposeing of any of wt is above mentioned & left with his Mother. 9thly: I will that my executor shall out of my estate I now, or at my decease shall have we is not particularly disposed of, provide suffitent provision for my said wife for one full yeare after my decease, & shall also make good what ever I have absolutely given by this my Will to my sd: wife and three Daugters; out of what estate I leave in his hands at my decease, according to the true intent of the articles abovewritten 10thly: I doe hereby constitute and appoint my Son Joseph to be my sole executor of this my last will, & testament; and to pay all my debts and to make good all the legacies which I have hereby given; an in case my said Son shall refuse the place as executor, and to doe as I have herein ordered then my Will is that my present wife Hester Bond shall be my sole Executrix, and have the whole of my estate putt into her hands, she paying all my debts , and legacies, & upon my said Son Josephs refusal of Executorship, I will that my said Wife shall given my said Son the sum: of ten pounds; and then what I had formerly given and left to my said wife, & Son of housing, lands & meadows shall be the one half of it at my wife’s: absolute disposal at her death, provided shee give the other half, before or at herdeath to my said two daughters Mary & Abigail. 11thly: I absolutely & freely give unto my wife, a booke in folio, which I have of Mr Perkins his works. 12thly: I will that my Son Joseph refuseing to be my Executor, shall have noe father interest in my estate then the ten pound which my wife, takeing the place which herefuseth, is hereby ordered to pay him my sd: Son. In witnesse unto, and for comfirmation of the twelve foregoeing articles to be my last Will and Testament which in the name of Christ my Redeemer I beseech my Executor, or Executrix to observe; according to ye true intent of them: I the said John Bond doe hereunto sett my hand, & seale this one & thirtieth of October 1t hundred seaventy & foure.
John Bond (Seal)
Witness: Nath. Saltonstall John (his mark) Williams.
Proved in Salisbury court Apr. 13, 1675 by Capt. Nath Saltonstall and John Williams
Inventory  taken Dec. 17, 1674 by Robert Clement and John Griffing: A houses & A freme, barne & orchard, 40li.; 50 Acurs of land within fenes, 150li.; 8 Acurs of medow at duck medow, 16li. ; 2 oxen, 11li. ; 3 Cowes, 11li. ; 3 3 yere olde hefers, 7 li. 10s. ; mare, 3 li. ; 8 swine, 2li. 14s. ; Iorn worck for husbandry, 1li. 12s. ; Inian corne, thrashes & unthrashed, 3li. 12s. ; where, 6 bushills, 11li. 10s. ; A cheese pres and other wodin were, 14s. ; beefe & porcke in the seller, 4li. 10s. ; hoopes, 2 li. 5s. ; wering aparill woolin & Lining, 6li.; the standing bed, beding and other furniture, 12li. ; puter, bras & Iorn housall stuff, 5li. 3s.; bedstedes, coburges & other wodin were in the howse, 2li. 5s. ; pine bordes, 4li. ; in Amanishan, as picke, sorde & belt and buf cote, 1li. 10s.; A billof sam. Ladm 3li. 4s.; bill due from Danll. Lad, jun, 40li.
Attested 13: 2: 1675 by Joseph Bond, executor.
Essex County Probate Files, Docket 2788.
His window married John Williams on May 5th 1675.
After his death his wife also appeared in the court records. The record is quote below:
Hester relict of John Bond v Richard Dole For dower Verdict for plaintiff her dower or third part of about twenty shares of land and marsh at Plumb Hand which were possessed by her husband Court ordered Capt Sam Brocklebanke Lift Nellson and Ezekiell Northend to set off her thirds
Capt Thomas Marshall deposed as to being surety for Giffard Thomas Stocker aged about fifty five years deposed Sworn Mar 29 1675 before Edward Tyng f assistant Ralph King aged about thirty five years William Bassitt aged about fifty years Samuell Johnson aged about thirty years and Nathaniell Ballard aged about thirty seven years deposed concerning witnessing the levying of the execution at Giffard’s house Upon refusing to give up the cattle Giffard also refused to submit to authority whereupon John Hat home took hold of him by his coat but he turned away Then Hathorne took hold of his neckcloth whereupon Jeffard struck him three blows on his face and also struck him on the head with the stale of a rake and told him he was a rogue and if he had his deserts he would have been on the pillory before this Also that Margaret Jeffard came out and bit said Hathorne upon the back of his hand Jeffard further challenged Edward Richards to fight him Nathaniell Ballard was the constable Sworn 15 1 1674 5 before Wm Hathorne assistant 
Writ dated Mar 12 1674 5 signed by Robert Lord f for the court and served by Samuell Plumer f deputy for Robert Lord f marshal of Ipswich
Ester Bondes bill of cost 3li 1s 8d
Ezekiell Northend deposed that he went with Mr Phillip Nellson to John Bond when the latter lived at Plum Hand in his house which was on Rowley share Nellson demanded pay of Bond for about twenty shares of land and meadow which he said Bond had bought Sworn in court
Daniell Epps aged about fifty years testified that twelve years ago he was occasionally at Plumb Island at Goodman Bond’s house when the latter told him he had bought a third part of Rowley division Going there again later about one of his sons who was apprenticed to deponent he saw some Indian corn that was planted upon the sandy ground where the pine trees grew and asked Bond why he planted there Bond said for a trial but it came to nothing etc Sworn in court
John Griffing aged about thirty seven years deposed that he heard Mr Richard Doill say that he wondered that the widow Bond would ever think of recovering her thirds for she knew that he bought it of her husband and she signed this deed and also that which Mr Juit made to her husband
John Willcut deposed that he built a house for John Bond on the Rowley part of Plum Island about fourteen years ago and he heard John Bond Rogers and Troter say that they were equal proprietors Sworn in court
John Knight aged about fifty years deposed that John Bond of Haverhill late husband to Hester Bond lived at his Plumbe Island house two years etc Sworn in court
Stephen Grenlefe aged about forty five years deposed that he paid Mr Joseph Juete about 60li for the use of John Bond now deceased which was for his share at Plum Island etc Sworn in court
Daniel and Elizabeth Ela deposed Sworn Mar 29 1675 before Nath Saltonstall
Deed dated June 27 1664 given by Philip Nellson J John CarletonJ and Jeremiah Jewett J executors of the estate of their father Joseph Jewett for 200li to Richard Doell Henry Jaquis and John Bond of Newbury 66 shares of Plum Island Rowley division bounded upon Ipswitch marsh on the south Newbury marsh on the north which shares were bought by their father Jewett of sixty odd persons containing all the right of almost all the persons in the town of Rowley Wit Ezeckel Northendf and Jeremiah Elsworth f Acknowledged June 27 1664 before Samuel Symonds f Possession was given to Richard Doell and Henry Jaquis Aug 23 1664 by Philip Nellsonf and Jeremiah Jewett f Wit Hugh Marchf and John Mighell f Recorded May 10 1665 in the records of lands for Essex at Ipswich book 2 folio 137 8 9 by Robert Lord f recorder
Joseph Bond aged twenty two years deposed concerning his father’s purchase etc Sworn Mar 29 1675 before Nath Saltonstall f commissioner
Bond dated Aug 15 1659 given by Robt RogersJ and William his mark Trotter of Newberie to Joseph Jewett of Rowly clothier in consideration of 60 odd shares of Plum Island for 200li to be paid within seven years in corn beef or pork at said Jewett’s dwelling house at Rowley Wit Stephen Swetf and Thomas his mark Seers
Writ dated Jan 22 1674 signed by Robert Lord f for the court and served by Robert Lord f marshal of Ipswich
In an attempted to locate his burial place Pentucket Cemetery in Haverhill Massachusetts was searched but no gravestone for him was located. This in no way means he was or was not buried in that cemetery.
He had 6 Child including:
    • John Bond (1650-1694)
    • Thomas Bond (1652-1652)
    • Joseph Bond (1653-1724)
    • Esther Bond (1655-1720)
    • Mary Bond (1657-1696)
    • Abigail Bond (1660-1734)
Nationality Distribution:
    • 100% English
