This is the story of our family and hopefully it has the stories of your family as well. Being descendant from nobility does not make one inherently better and coming from humble beginning of farmers or factory workers does not make one worst: but by learning from the past we can improve the future. These are those stories. Some are exciting, some are sad. There are stories of valor and riches, while there are also stories of crime and drunkenness. Looking back on history shows what can be done with hard work and what can happen without. It is a founding principle of our great country that the status you are born into is not what matters. What matters is what you do with what you are given. Please enjoy this book as you learn from the past.
This work is meant to document these stories in a reliable and easy to read format. So many similar books seem to be little more than long lists of genealogies. I hope this book is different for I have striven to give information that provides insight into who the people were and why they did what they did. I have also tried to show how their environment affected them. It is a gift to my child(ren) and future descendants for when they can appreciate it.
Traditional publishing uses a first edition, second edition and so forth numbering for each version of the book published.  Given my background and the fact that I envision many incremental versions of this book as I do future research I use a versioning system which comes from software engineering. This book’s version is expressed as three numbers where one number is incremented depending on the nature of the change. For instance this first edition (or more appropriately the zeroth edition) is 0.0.0 (major.minor.maint). The first number represents a major published version. It is incremented when I make a major overhaul to portions of the book. This starts at zero and counts upward. It is where the “zeroeth” edition term comes from. Next is the minor number which incremented for minor additions such as expansion of the history on a certain person in the book. The final number is incremented for a maintenance edition which represents a minor change such as a spelling, grammar, or errata correction. An increment in a major version resets the minor and maintenance version to zero while an increment in the minor version resets the maintenance version.
This book is centered on the family tree of my child(ren). It is organized into the following major sections:
The first section, Family Lines, has the branches of the family tree and it lays out the generations of a particular family name. Each family proceeds from modern times to the farthest back that particular family name can be traced on the male side. For each generation the person’s name and birth years are given along with their occupation(s) and some places of residence. For each family line there may also be a sub-section called branches which gives other family lines that shoot off from this family line. This sub-section gives the family line followed by the person’s name whose mother starts the new family line. There may also be a sub-section called stories. This shows stories related to the family lines. These stories are in the following section.
The second section is Stories. In all the people researched for this book a few were exceptionally intertwined with historical events. This section takes these people’s stories and gives a bit of historical background for the reader’s enjoyment. Sometimes there is also documentation of people who are not direct ancestors in this section if they are particularly interesting.
The next section is Persons. This section contains detailed historical information on each of the family lines given in the first and second sections. It once again is laid out from modern times to the farthest back that particular family name can be traced. As much as possible pictures are given of the people, things, and places related to them. Focus is given on details which show the character and personality of the people rather than just the dates of their existence. It is organized by the family lines. Documentation on more modern people is limited to respect their privacy.
Each person is organized with an introduction that contains basic information on them such as birth date and location along with their death date and location. Also, if they were only married once this section includes their marriage date and location.
All married women are only listed with their maiden name. This style is used throughout this book to help uniquely identify people unambiguously. If they did not assume their husbands name a special note to that affect is made. Next there is a chronological story of their life. As much as possible, historical facts that could have affected them are mentioned. Their marriage and death information is repeated in the chronologically correct place. After this the person’s children are listed. The children’s births are not normally mentioned in the chronological listing unless important to the narrative being told.
The final piece of information given for each person is their nationality distribution. For the sake of the nationality percentages computed here, someone who emigrates from a nation is assumed to be one hundred percent that nationality unless there is evidence to suggest otherwise. These percentages should only be thought of as rough pictures.
The term mutt is often used in these distributions and is meant to describe a mixing of nationalities that is unknown. For instance, if someone is and English Mutt that might mean their family has been in America for a long time and the ancestry tree has not been fully traced. As the longer a family has been in the United States the harder it gets to fully trace their heritage. This is used to imply it seems like they are mostly English and there is no evidence of other nationalities but there is no hard proof that they are fully that amount of English or other nationality. Someone who is listed as a mutt is fully unknown. This term is in no way meant to be an insult.
Certain people may have a special W symbol next to their name. This means that a Wikipedia.org page was found for this person. This is just a neat fact that normally means that person was somewhat “famous”.
Throughout this book dates are in an underlined font to distinguish them from the rest of the text such e.g.: July 4th 1986.
The next section is Undocumented Persons. This section contains people mentioned in other sections that have not been documented. Extra care should be taken with these people as their birth/death dates have often not been vetted as well as the information on the people that are fully documented.
The following section is Compilations. This section contains all sorts of different compilations, both about specific people and families and about locations and history in general, that are helpful in understanding the people and stories in this book. 
After this comes Expansion Pages. This section is for you. It contains some blank pages which can be used to describe and record people in your life so that perhaps one day these pages will be the primary source used by future historical researchers. Similar to how the family bible was often used for this in the past.
Throughout this book the family lines are organized with the following logic. There are four key lines in this book: the Bond, the O’Kroy, the Lizotte, and the Irons lines. Each of these represents one of the grandparents of my child(ren) and as such these lines are probably of interest to people reading this book. To help limit how much someone needs to jump around all branches underneath these lines in the family tree are kept near these main branches in the book. These sub-trees are explored in a breath first search order such that the lines are ordered as follows:
Bond, Blomquist, Brown, Fuller, Noyes
O’Kroy, Pettypool, Tilger, Wagner,
Lizotte, Sherlock
Irons, Given
This book is meant to be a work in progress. If you would like to contribute to this book please email David Bond at mokon@mokon.net or via snail mail at 272 North Rd. Epsom NH, 03234 with verifiable information and your information will be added. If you would like I can add you do the list of contributors. If you see errata please send those to me as well. I have strived for accuracy in this book but the only way I can reach the best possible accuracy is with your help.
