Sources
Due to the high density of information in this book sourcing is done inline in the text. I have, to the best of my ability, only placed verifiable and sourced information in this book but please treat this book with a proper amount of cynicism. Generally the more direct lines are researched more thoroughly. The Bond family line has been researched the best. Legends are nice but are clearly marked as such if they appear. I have attempted to use primary sources whenever possible.
An often used source is one of the many U.S. City Directories that exist. These have been abbreviated USCD.
When a census is named without giving what census it is, it can be assumed to be the United States Federal Census.
Books
The following books were sources for this book:
Biographical and Genealogical Record of La Salle and Grundy Counties, Illinois
Biographical List of Boys Educated at King Edward VI. Free Grammar School, Bury St. Edmunds: From 1550 to 1900
The Essex Antiquarian, Volume 9
Genealogies of the Families and Descendants of the Early Settlers of Watertown, Massachusetts
The Genealogy of John Brown: Marguerite Willette Brown
Genealogies of Virginia Families from the William and Mary College Quarterly. Vol. IV. Neville-Terrill
The Historic Genealogy of the Lowells of America from 1639 to 1899 Delmar Rial Lowell
Historic Homes and Institutions and Genealogical and Personal Memoirs of Worcester County, Massachusetts: With a History of Worcester Society of Antiquity, Volume 1
History of Effingham county, Illinois (1883)
History of Jefferson County, Illinois (1883)
History of Newbury, Mass., 1635-1902, Volume 1
History of Pembroke, N. H.: 1730-1895, Volume 1
History of Sanbornton, New Hampshire, Volume 2
History of Solano County...and histories of its cities, towns...etc.
History of the Town of Hampton, New Hampshire: From Its Settlement in 1638, to the Autumn of 1892, Volume 2
The IRONS Family in America (a genealogy) with notes on the BALDWIN, BIRDSALL and BROWNE families.
A Memorial of the Town of Hampstead, New Hampshire, v. 2: Historic and Genealogic Sketches
New England Family History, Volume II, Henry Cole, Quinby 
The New Puritan: James Shepherd Pike
The Old Families of Salisbury and Amesbury, Massachusetts: With Some Related Families of Newbury, Haverhill, Ipswich, and Hampton, and of York County, Maine
Ould Newbury: Historical and Biographical Sketches
The Pettypool Family History, Beginning about 1700 AD and down to the present time
Private & Special Laws of the State of Maine, as passed by the seventy-fourth legislature, 1909: State tax for the years 1909 & 1910
The Probate Records of Essex County, Massachusetts: 1665-1674
Proceedings of the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of the State of California at Its ... Annual Convocation, Volumes 37-39
Proceedings of the M.W. Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California
Records and Files of the Quarterly Courts of Essex County, Massachusetts: Volume III 1662-1667
Records of Rowley, Mass, Volume 1
Vital records of Londonderry, New Hampshire
The William Pettypool Family of Southside Virginia
Websites
The following websites were sources for this book:
noyesgenealogy.net
Audio Recordings
The following audio recordings were sources for this book:
Great Depression Interview of Noyes Fuller Bond Jr. and Marjorie Elaine (Blomquist) Bond taken by Timothy Bond February 29th 2000
